tools-and-tests/scripts/network-topology-tool/README.md, before:

# Network Topology Tool

Define and validate Hiero network topologies for testing and deployment.

## Schema

Topologies are defined in YAML following `network-topology.schema.yaml`. The schema supports:

|      Section      | Required |                      Description                      |
|-------------------|----------|-------------------------------------------------------|
| `name`            | Yes      | Topology identifier                                   |
| `description`     | No       | Human-readable description                            |
| `block_nodes`     | Yes      | Block nodes that receive streams from consensus nodes |
| `consensus_nodes` | Yes      | Consensus nodes that produce block streams            |
| `mirror_nodes`    | No       | Mirror nodes that subscribe to block nodes            |
| `relay_nodes`     | No       | JSON-RPC relay nodes that connect to mirror nodes     |
| `explorer_nodes`  | No       | Explorer UI nodes that display data from mirror nodes |

## Node References

Nodes can reference other nodes in three formats:

```yaml
# Simple reference (string)
block_nodes: [block-node-1, block-node-2]

# With priority (object)
block_nodes:
  - node: block-node-1
    priority: 1
  - node: block-node-2
    priority: 2

# Inline priority (shorthand)
block_nodes:
  - block-node-1: 1
  - block-node-2: 2
```

## Topologies

|       Name        | CN | BN |           Description            |
|-------------------|----|----|----------------------------------|
| `single`          | 1  | 1  | Minimal setup for basic testing  |
| `paired-3`        | 3  | 3  | Each CN streams to its paired BN |
| `fan-out-3cn-2bn` | 3  | 2  | All CNs can stream to all BNs    |

## Example

```yaml
name: my-topology
description: "2 Consensus Nodes, 1 Block Node"

block_nodes:
  block-node-1:
    address: block-node-1
    port: 40840

consensus_nodes:
  node1:
    block_nodes: [block-node-1]
  node2:
    block_nodes: [block-node-1]

mirror_nodes:
  mirror-1:
    block_nodes: [block-node-1]

relay_nodes:
  relay-1:
    mirror_nodes: [mirror-1]

explorer_nodes:
  explorer-1:
    mirror_nodes: [mirror-1]
```

## Validation

```bash
# Install check-jsonschema (pip install check-jsonschema)
check-jsonschema --schemafile network-topology.schema.yaml topologies/single.yaml
```

## Helm Overlay Generator

Generate Helm values overlays from topology files for Solo CLI deployments.

### Usage

```bash
./generate-chart-values-config-overlays.sh <topology-file> [options]
```

### Arguments

|     Argument      |              Description              |
|-------------------|---------------------------------------|
| `<topology-file>` | Path to topology YAML file (required) |

### Options

|     Option     |         Default         |            Description             |
|----------------|-------------------------|------------------------------------|
| `--namespace`  | `solo-network`          | Kubernetes namespace for DNS names |
| `--output-dir` | `./out/<topology-name>` | Directory for output files         |

### Output Files

|        File Pattern        |                      Description                       |
|----------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------|
| `bn-<node-id>-values.yaml` | Block Node overlay (only generated for BNs with peers) |
| `mn-<node-id>-values.yaml` | Mirror Node overlay                                    |

### Block Node Overlay

Generated for block nodes that have `peers` configured. Enables backfill with greedy mode:

```yaml
blockNode:
  config:
    BACKFILL_BLOCK_NODE_SOURCES_PATH: "/opt/hiero/block-node/backfill/block-node-sources.json"
    BACKFILL_GREEDY: "true"
  backfill:
    path: "/opt/hiero/block-node/backfill"
    filename: "block-node-sources.json"
    sources:
      - address: "block-node-2.solo-network.svc.cluster.local"
        port: 40840
        priority: 1
```

### Mirror Node Overlay

Generated for all mirror nodes with their configured block node connections:

```yaml
config:
  hiero:
    mirror:
      importer:
        block:
          enabled: true
          nodes:
            - host: block-node-1.solo-network.svc.cluster.local
              port: 40840
          sourceType: BLOCK_NODE
```

### Examples

```bash
# Generate overlays from a topology file (outputs to ./out/fan-out-3cn-2bn/)
./generate-chart-values-config-overlays.sh topologies/fan-out-3cn-2bn.yaml

# Specify namespace and custom output directory
./generate-chart-values-config-overlays.sh topologies/paired-3.yaml --namespace my-ns --output-dir ./overlays

# Results for fan-out topology (default output):
# ./out/fan-out-3cn-2bn/bn-block-node-1-values.yaml  (backfill from block-node-2)
# ./out/fan-out-3cn-2bn/bn-block-node-2-values.yaml  (backfill from block-node-1)
# ./out/fan-out-3cn-2bn/mn-mirror-1-values.yaml      (connects to both BNs)
```

### Integration with Solo CLI

```bash
# Generate overlays, then deploy
./generate-chart-values-config-overlays.sh topologies/fan-out-3cn-2bn.yaml
solo block node add -d my-deployment -f ./out/fan-out-3cn-2bn/bn-block-node-1-values.yaml
solo mirror node add -d my-deployment -f ./out/fan-out-3cn-2bn/mn-mirror-1-values.yaml
```

The `solo-deploy-network.sh` script automatically uses this generator when deploying networks.

## Usage with Solo E2E Test

The `solo-e2e-test` scripts use these topologies for network deployment:

```bash
cd ../solo-e2e-test
task up TOPOLOGY=single
task up TOPOLOGY=paired-3
```

Commit message:

- Add `greedy` boolean field to block_nodes in network-topology.schema.yaml - Update generate-chart-values-config-overlays.sh to read greedy from topology (defaults to false) instead of hardcoding true - Add greedy field to paired-3 and fan-out-3cn-2bn topologies - Update README.md with greedy field documentation - Fix Taskfile.yml to propagate TOPOLOGY var to sub-tasks (up:paired, up:fan-out convenience tasks were not passing topology correctly)
Signed-off-by: Alfredo Gutierrez Grajeda <alfredo@hashgraph.com>

tools-and-tests/scripts/network-topology-tool/README.md, after:

# Network Topology Tool

Define and validate Hiero network topologies for testing and deployment.

## Schema

Topologies are defined in YAML following `network-topology.schema.yaml`. The schema supports:

|      Section      | Required |                      Description                      |
|-------------------|----------|-------------------------------------------------------|
| `name`            | Yes      | Topology identifier                                   |
| `description`     | No       | Human-readable description                            |
| `block_nodes`     | Yes      | Block nodes that receive streams from consensus nodes |
| `consensus_nodes` | Yes      | Consensus nodes that produce block streams            |
| `mirror_nodes`    | No       | Mirror nodes that subscribe to block nodes            |
| `relay_nodes`     | No       | JSON-RPC relay nodes that connect to mirror nodes     |
| `explorer_nodes`  | No       | Explorer UI nodes that display data from mirror nodes |

## Node References

Nodes can reference other nodes in three formats:

```yaml
# Simple reference (string)
block_nodes: [block-node-1, block-node-2]

# With priority (object)
block_nodes:
  - node: block-node-1
    priority: 1
  - node: block-node-2
    priority: 2

# Inline priority (shorthand)
block_nodes:
  - block-node-1: 1
  - block-node-2: 2
```

## Topologies

|       Name        | CN | BN |           Description            |
|-------------------|----|----|----------------------------------|
| `single`          | 1  | 1  | Minimal setup for basic testing  |
| `paired-3`        | 3  | 3  | Each CN streams to its paired BN |
| `fan-out-3cn-2bn` | 3  | 2  | All CNs can stream to all BNs    |

## Example

```yaml
name: my-topology
description: "2 Consensus Nodes, 1 Block Node"

block_nodes:
  block-node-1:
    address: block-node-1
    port: 40840
    greedy: false  # Enable greedy backfill mode (defaults to false)

consensus_nodes:
  node1:
    block_nodes: [block-node-1]
  node2:
    block_nodes: [block-node-1]

mirror_nodes:
  mirror-1:
    block_nodes: [block-node-1]

relay_nodes:
  relay-1:
    mirror_nodes: [mirror-1]

explorer_nodes:
  explorer-1:
    mirror_nodes: [mirror-1]
```

## Validation

```bash
# Install check-jsonschema (pip install check-jsonschema)
check-jsonschema --schemafile network-topology.schema.yaml topologies/single.yaml
```

## Helm Overlay Generator

Generate Helm values overlays from topology files for Solo CLI deployments.

### Usage

```bash
./generate-chart-values-config-overlays.sh <topology-file> [options]
```

### Arguments

|     Argument      |              Description              |
|-------------------|---------------------------------------|
| `<topology-file>` | Path to topology YAML file (required) |

### Options

|     Option     |         Default         |            Description             |
|----------------|-------------------------|------------------------------------|
| `--namespace`  | `solo-network`          | Kubernetes namespace for DNS names |
| `--output-dir` | `./out/<topology-name>` | Directory for output files         |

### Output Files

|        File Pattern        |                      Description                       |
|----------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------|
| `bn-<node-id>-values.yaml` | Block Node overlay (only generated for BNs with peers) |
| `mn-<node-id>-values.yaml` | Mirror Node overlay                                    |

### Block Node Overlay

Generated for block nodes that have `peers` configured. The `greedy` value comes from the topology (defaults to false):

```yaml
blockNode:
  config:
    BACKFILL_BLOCK_NODE_SOURCES_PATH: "/opt/hiero/block-node/backfill/block-node-sources.json"
    BACKFILL_GREEDY: "false"  # Value from topology's greedy field
  backfill:
    path: "/opt/hiero/block-node/backfill"
    filename: "block-node-sources.json"
    sources:
      - address: "block-node-2.solo-network.svc.cluster.local"
        port: 40840
        priority: 1
```

### Mirror Node Overlay

Generated for all mirror nodes with their configured block node connections:

```yaml
config:
  hiero:
    mirror:
      importer:
        block:
          enabled: true
          nodes:
            - host: block-node-1.solo-network.svc.cluster.local
              port: 40840
          sourceType: BLOCK_NODE
```

### Examples

```bash
# Generate overlays from a topology file (outputs to ./out/fan-out-3cn-2bn/)
./generate-chart-values-config-overlays.sh topologies/fan-out-3cn-2bn.yaml

# Specify namespace and custom output directory
./generate-chart-values-config-overlays.sh topologies/paired-3.yaml --namespace my-ns --output-dir ./overlays

# Results for fan-out topology (default output):
# ./out/fan-out-3cn-2bn/bn-block-node-1-values.yaml  (backfill from block-node-2)
# ./out/fan-out-3cn-2bn/bn-block-node-2-values.yaml  (backfill from block-node-1)
# ./out/fan-out-3cn-2bn/mn-mirror-1-values.yaml      (connects to both BNs)
```

### Integration with Solo CLI

```bash
# Generate overlays, then deploy
./generate-chart-values-config-overlays.sh topologies/fan-out-3cn-2bn.yaml
solo block node add -d my-deployment -f ./out/fan-out-3cn-2bn/bn-block-node-1-values.yaml
solo mirror node add -d my-deployment -f ./out/fan-out-3cn-2bn/mn-mirror-1-values.yaml
```

The `solo-deploy-network.sh` script automatically uses this generator when deploying networks.

## Usage with Solo E2E Test

The `solo-e2e-test` scripts use these topologies for network deployment:

```bash
cd ../solo-e2e-test
task up TOPOLOGY=single
task up TOPOLOGY=paired-3
```
