docs/test-plan/persistence/files-historic-persistence-e2e-test-plan.md, before:

# E2E Test Plan - `Files Historic Persistence`

## Overview

Persistence is a key component of the Block-Node. We need to ensure that we have
good and reliable persistence plugins that can be used by the Block-Node. We
support local filesystem archive of received and verified blocks which we call
`Files Historic Persistence`. Also, complementary to the persistence capability
itself, we have the ability to retrieve (read) blocks that have been archived
locally. `Block Provision` is another key component of the Block-Node.
The `Files Historic Persistence` is however an optional component, meaning that
the system is able to operate without it present and loaded.

This E2E test plan is designed to highlight the key scenarios that need to be
tested for end results in order to ensure the correctness and proper working of
the `Files Historic Persistence` as well as the complementary `Block Provision`
logic. Essentially, this test plan describes the intended behavior of the
`Files Historic Persistence` and the expected results it produces.

## Key Considerations for `Files Historic Persistence`

- **Batching of Blocks to Archive**: `Files Historic Persistence` will archive
  blocks in batches. This means that it will collect a number of blocks
  (configurable amount) and then archive them together in a single zip.
- **Batch Size**: The configurable batch size is a power of 10. This done to
  complement a trie data structure that is used for path resolution. Also,
  this means that a batch will always start with a number that is a product of
  the configured batch size and will end with `startNumber + batchSize - 1`,
  e.g. if batch size is 1000, we will see 0-999, 1000-1999, 2000-2999 etc.
- **No Gaps Allowed**: The `Files Historic Persistence` will not allow gaps in
  the zips. This means that we have a predictable start and end number for each
  batch and also, we are certain that if a zip is created successfully, it
  contains all the blocks from the batch.
- **Path Resolution Logic**: `Files Historic Persistence` relies on path
  resolution logic which determines the location of a given zip for each
  blockNumber.
- **Trie Data Structure for Path Resolution**: `Files Historic Persistence`
  relies on a trie data structure for path resolution. The trie structure
  is designed to efficiently resolve paths for blocks based on their
  blockNumber. Each block is stored in a zip file, and the path to that zip
  is determined by the blockNumber, based on configured batch size. For example,
  if we have a batch size of 1000, the path for the zip file where block with
  blockNumber `0000000000000001234` resides would be same as the path for block
  with blockNumber `0000000000000001235`, as they both belong to the same batch
  (1000-1999). An example path for that zip file could be:
  `/blocks/000/000/000/000/000/1000s.zip` if the batch size is 1000.
- **Files Historic Root Path**: This is the root path (configurable) where all
  blocks will be archived. Generally, the stored blocks are long-lived as this
  type of persistence is used for long-term storage of blocks.
- **Scope**: The `Files Historic Persistence` will handle Persisted
  Notifications that are arriving via the node's messaging system. It will then
  proceed to determine if it can archive the next batch or not. If it can, it
  will proceed to archive the batch in a zip file, using the node's
  `Block Provision` facility to supply the blocks that need to be archived.
  Finally, it will publish the result of the archive operation to the node's
  messaging system as a Persisted Notification, only if the archive was
  successful. An important clarification is that the
  `Files Historic Persistence` will only batch and archive blocks that have
  been persisted by other plugins with higher priority!
- **Persistence Results**: `Files Historic Persistence` publishes persistence
  results to the node's messaging system when a successful archive happens.
  These results will be pushed to subscribed handlers.

## Test Scenarios

> _**NOTE**: for the purpose of the below test definitions, we will have the
> following root definition (this could be configured to be different, but
> whatever is configured is of no relevance to the outcome of the tests, simply
> we need a reference point so an example could be shown):_
> `Files Historic Root`: `/blocks`
>
> _**NOTE**: the trie structure for `Files Recent Root` is resolving
> all the digits of a `long` (max. 19 digits). We have three digits per node
> or directory. Based on archive size, the max. depth of directories vary. After
> we have reached our max. depth, we will then have an arbitrary number of zip
> files, each named with the batch's start number suffixed with `s.zip`.
> As an example, if we have a batch size of 1000, we will have the following
> resolutions:
> </br>
> `/blocks/000/000/000/000/000/0000s.zip` (first thousand 0-999)
> </br>
> `/blocks/000/000/000/000/000/1000s.zip` (second thousand 1000-1999)
> </br>
> etc._
>
> _**NOTE**: assume that for each test the configured batch size is `10` in
> order to have a more manageable environment. An example resolution for a
> zip would be:
> </b>
> `/blocks/000/000/000/000/000/00/00s.zip` (first ten 0-9)
> `/blocks/000/000/000/000/000/00/10s.zip` (second ten 10-19)
> </b>
> etc._
>
> _**NOTE**: assume that the Block-Node under test is configured to have the
> compression algorithm set to `ZStandard` so the file extension for an archived
> block will be `.blk.zstd`_

|                            Test Case ID | Test Name                                                   | Implemented ( :white_check_mark: / :x: ) |
|----------------------------------------:|:------------------------------------------------------------|:----------------------------------------:|
|                                         | _**<br/>[Happy Path Tests](#happy-path-tests)<br/>&nbsp;**_ |                                          |
| [E2ETC_HP_FHP_0001](#E2ETC_HP_FHP_0001) | `Verify Archived Batch Zip Location`                        |                   :x:                    |
| [E2ETC_HP_FHP_0002](#E2ETC_HP_FHP_0002) | `Verify Archived Batch Zip Content`                         |                   :x:                    |
| [E2ETC_HP_FHP_0003](#E2ETC_HP_FHP_0003) | `Verify No Gaps in Zip`                                     |                   :x:                    |
| [E2ETC_HP_FHP_0004](#E2ETC_HP_FHP_0004) | `Verify Immutable Zips`                                     |                   :x:                    |
|                                         | _**<br/>[Error Tests](#error-tests)<br/>&nbsp;**_           |                                          |
|   [E2ETC_E_FHP_0001](#E2ETC_E_FHP_0001) | `Verify Cleanup on IO Failure`                              |                   :x:                    |

### Happy Path Tests

#### E2ETC_HP_FHP_0001

##### Test Name

`Verify Archived Batch Zip Location`

##### Scenario Description

Blocks are persisted in range `0-9` (the only ones currently in existence).
A Persisted Notification is published to the node's messaging system for blocks
persisted in range `0-9` with priority higher than the
`Files Historic Persistence`'s . The `Files Historic Persistence` will then
proceed to archive the batch of blocks in a zip file.

##### Requirements

The `Files Historic Persistence` MUST archive blocks in batches.</br>
Each batch MUST be archived in a single zip file.</br>
The created zip file MUST be located at the resolved path.

##### Expected Behaviour

- It is expected that the `Files Historic Persistence` will archive a batch
  successfully, creating a zip file at the resolved location.

##### Preconditions

- Blocks in range `0-9` are persisted (the only ones currently in existence).
  - The system-wide block provision facility is able to provide these blocks
    with priority higher than the `Files Historic Persistence`'s.
- A Persisted Notification is published to the node's messaging system for
  blocks persisted in range `0-9` with priority higher than the
  `Files Historic Persistence`'s.

##### Input

- Persisted Notification for blocks persisted in range `0-9` with priority
  higher than the `Files Historic Persistence`'s.

##### Output

- Regular file: `/blocks/000/000/000/000/000/00/00s.zip` exists.

##### Other

N/A

---

#### E2ETC_HP_FHP_0002

##### Test Name

`Verify Archived Batch Zip Content`

##### Scenario Description

Blocks are persisted in range `0-9` (the only ones currently in existence).
A Persisted Notification is published to the node's messaging system for blocks
persisted in range `0-9` with priority higher than the
`Files Historic Persistence`'s . The `Files Historic Persistence` will then
proceed to archive the batch of blocks in a zip file.

##### Requirements

The `Files Historic Persistence` MUST archive blocks in batches.</br>
Each batch MUST be archived in a single zip file.</br>
The zip file MUST contain all the blocks from the batch.</br>
Each entry in the zip file MUST have the same binary content as the original
block that was archived.

##### Expected Behaviour

- It is expected that the `Files Historic Persistence` will archive the batch
  successfully creating a zip file at the resolved location.
- It is expected that the zip file contains all the blocks from the batch.
- It is expected that each entry in the zip file has the same binary content
  as the original block that was archived.

##### Preconditions

- Blocks in range `0-9` are persisted (the only ones currently in existence).
  - The system-wide block provision facility is able to provide these blocks
    with priority higher than the `Files Historic Persistence`'s.
- A Persisted Notification is published to the node's messaging system for
  blocks persisted in range `0-9` with priority higher than the
  `Files Historic Persistence`'s.

##### Input

- Persisted Notification for blocks persisted in range `0-9` with priority
  higher than the `Files Historic Persistence`'s.

##### Output

- Regular file: `/blocks/000/000/000/000/000/00/00s.zip` contains 10 entries
  for each block `0000000000000000000.blk.zstd` to
  `0000000000000000009.blk.zstd`.
- The binary content of each entry is the same as the original block that was
  archived.

##### Other

N/A

---

#### E2ETC_HP_FHP_0003

##### Test Name

`Verify No Gaps in Zip`

##### Scenario Description

Blocks are persisted in range `1-9` (the only ones currently in existence).
A Persisted Notification is published to the node's messaging system for blocks
persisted in range `1-9` with priority higher than the
`Files Historic Persistence`'s . The `Files Historic Persistence` will then
proceed to not archive the batch of blocks in a zip file because there is a gap
present in the batch.

##### Requirements

The `Files Historic Persistence` MUST archive blocks in batches.</br>
Each batch MUST be archived in a single zip file.</br>
NO gaps are allowed in the batch.</br>
NO archive MUST be created when a gap is detected in the current batch.</br>

##### Expected Behaviour

- It is expected that the `Files Historic Persistence` will not archive the
  current batch if a gap in the batch is detected.
- It is expected that no files or data exist anywhere on the filesystem that
  would normally be produced in a successful archive.

##### Preconditions

- Blocks in range `0-9` are persisted (the only ones currently in existence).
  - The system-wide block provision facility is able to provide these blocks
    with priority higher than the `Files Historic Persistence`'s.
- A Persisted Notification is published to the node's messaging system for
  blocks persisted in range `0-9` with priority higher than the
  `Files Historic Persistence`'s.

##### Input

- Persisted Notification for blocks persisted in range `1-9` with priority
  higher than the `Files Historic Persistence`'s.

##### Output

- Regular file: `/blocks/000/000/000/000/000/00/00s.zip` does not exist.

##### Other

N/A

---

#### E2ETC_HP_FHP_0004

##### Test Name

`Verify Immutable Zips`

##### Scenario Description

Blocks are persisted in range `0-9` (the only ones currently in existence).
A Persisted Notification is published to the node's messaging system for blocks
persisted in range `0-9` with priority higher than the
`Files Historic Persistence`'s . The `Files Historic Persistence` will then
proceed to archive the batch of blocks in a zip file. The zip file is immutable
and cannot be modified after it has been created.

##### Requirements

The `Files Historic Persistence` MUST archive blocks in batches.</br>
Each batch MUST be archived in a single zip file.</br>
All successfully created zip files MUST be immutable, thet CANNOT be modified
after creation.

##### Expected Behaviour

- It is expected that the `Files Historic Persistence` will archive a batch
  successfully creating a zip file at the resolved location.
- It is expected that the zip file is immutable.
  - All subsequent attempts to modify the zip file MUST fail.

##### Preconditions

- Blocks in range `0-9` are persisted (the only ones currently in existence).
  - The system-wide block provision facility is able to provide these blocks
    with priority higher than the `Files Historic Persistence`'s.
- A Persisted Notification is published to the node's messaging system for
  blocks persisted in range `0-9` with priority higher than the
  `Files Historic Persistence`'s.
- A subsequent publish of the same notification is made after the first zip is
  successfully created.

##### Input

- Persisted Notification for blocks persisted in range `0-9` with priority
  higher than the `Files Historic Persistence`'s.
- A subsequent publish of the same notification is made after the first zip is
  successfully created.

##### Output

- Regular file: `/blocks/000/000/000/000/000/00/00s.zip` exists and is
  immutable.

##### Other

N/A

---

### Error Tests

#### E2ETC_E_FHP_0001

##### Test Name

`Verify Cleanup on IO Failure`

##### Scenario Description

Blocks are persisted in range `0-9` (the only ones currently in existence).
A Persisted Notification is published to the node's messaging system for blocks
persisted in range `0-9` with priority higher than the
`Files Historic Persistence`'s . The `Files Historic Persistence` will then
proceed to archive the batch of blocks in a zip file. However, an IO issue
occurs during the archive attempt. The `Files Historic Persistence` cleans up
any potential data and side effects produced during the archive attempt.

##### Requirements

The `Files Historic Persistence` MUST archive blocks in batches.</br>
Each batch MUST be archived in a single zip file.</br>
The `Files Historic Persistence` MUST clean up any potential data and side
effects produced during an attempt to archive a batch after an IO issue occurs
during the archive attempt.

##### Expected Behaviour

- It is expected that the `Files Historic Persistence` will clean up any
  potential data and side effects produced during an attempt to archive a batch
  after an IO issue has occurred during the archive attempt.

##### Preconditions

- Blocks in range `0-9` are persisted (the only ones currently in existence).
  - The system-wide block provision facility is able to provide these blocks
    with priority higher than the `Files Historic Persistence`'s.
- A Persisted Notification is published to the node's messaging system for
  blocks persisted in range `0-9` with priority higher than the
  `Files Historic Persistence`'s.
- A way to simulate an IO issue during the archive attempt.

##### Input

- Persisted Notification for blocks persisted in range `0-9` with priority
  higher than the `Files Historic Persistence`'s.

##### Output

- Regular file: `/blocks/000/000/000/000/000/00/00s.zip` does not exist.

##### Other

N/A

---

Commit message:

happy path test for historic retention policy
Signed-off-by: Atanas Atanasov <a.v.atanasov98@gmail.com>

docs/test-plan/persistence/files-historic-persistence-e2e-test-plan.md, after:

# E2E Test Plan - `Files Historic Persistence`

## Overview

Persistence is a key component of the Block-Node. We need to ensure that we have
good and reliable persistence plugins that can be used by the Block-Node. We
support local filesystem archive of received and verified blocks which we call
`Files Historic Persistence`. Also, complementary to the persistence capability
itself, we have the ability to retrieve (read) blocks that have been archived
locally. `Block Provision` is another key component of the Block-Node.
The `Files Historic Persistence` is however an optional component, meaning that
the system is able to operate without it present and loaded.

This E2E test plan is designed to highlight the key scenarios that need to be
tested for end results in order to ensure the correctness and proper working of
the `Files Historic Persistence` as well as the complementary `Block Provision`
logic. Essentially, this test plan describes the intended behavior of the
`Files Historic Persistence` and the expected results it produces.

## Key Considerations for `Files Historic Persistence`

- **Batching of Blocks to Archive**: `Files Historic Persistence` will archive
  blocks in batches. This means that it will collect a number of blocks
  (configurable amount) and then archive them together in a single zip.
- **Batch Size**: The configurable batch size is a power of 10. This done to
  complement a trie data structure that is used for path resolution. Also,
  this means that a batch will always start with a number that is a product of
  the configured batch size and will end with `startNumber + batchSize - 1`,
  e.g. if batch size is 1000, we will see 0-999, 1000-1999, 2000-2999 etc.
- **No Gaps Allowed**: The `Files Historic Persistence` will not allow gaps in
  the zips. This means that we have a predictable start and end number for each
  batch and also, we are certain that if a zip is created successfully, it
  contains all the blocks from the batch.
- **Path Resolution Logic**: `Files Historic Persistence` relies on path
  resolution logic which determines the location of a given zip for each
  blockNumber.
- **Trie Data Structure for Path Resolution**: `Files Historic Persistence`
  relies on a trie data structure for path resolution. The trie structure
  is designed to efficiently resolve paths for blocks based on their
  blockNumber. Each block is stored in a zip file, and the path to that zip
  is determined by the blockNumber, based on configured batch size. For example,
  if we have a batch size of 1000, the path for the zip file where block with
  blockNumber `0000000000000001234` resides would be same as the path for block
  with blockNumber `0000000000000001235`, as they both belong to the same batch
  (1000-1999). An example path for that zip file could be:
  `/blocks/000/000/000/000/000/1000s.zip` if the batch size is 1000.
- **Files Historic Root Path**: This is the root path (configurable) where all
  blocks will be archived. Generally, the stored blocks are long-lived as this
  type of persistence is used for long-term storage of blocks.
- **Scope**: The `Files Historic Persistence` will handle Persisted
  Notifications that are arriving via the node's messaging system. It will then
  proceed to determine if it can archive the next batch or not. If it can, it
  will proceed to archive the batch in a zip file, using the node's
  `Block Provision` facility to supply the blocks that need to be archived.
  Finally, it will publish the result of the archive operation to the node's
  messaging system as a Persisted Notification, only if the archive was
  successful. An important clarification is that the
  `Files Historic Persistence` will only batch and archive blocks that have
  been persisted by other plugins with higher priority!
- **Persistence Results**: `Files Historic Persistence` publishes persistence
  results to the node's messaging system when a successful archive happens.
  These results will be pushed to subscribed handlers.

## Test Scenarios

> _**NOTE**: for the purpose of the below test definitions, we will have the
> following root definition (this could be configured to be different, but
> whatever is configured is of no relevance to the outcome of the tests, simply
> we need a reference point so an example could be shown):_
> `Files Historic Root`: `/blocks`
>
> _**NOTE**: the trie structure for `Files Historic Root` is resolving
> all the digits of a `long` (max. 19 digits). We have three digits per node
> or directory. Based on archive size, the max. depth of directories vary. After
> we have reached our max. depth, we will then have an arbitrary number of zip
> files, each named with the batch's start number suffixed with `s.zip`.
> As an example, if we have a batch size of 1000, we will have the following
> resolutions:
> </br>
> `/blocks/000/000/000/000/000/0000s.zip` (first thousand 0-999)
> </br>
> `/blocks/000/000/000/000/000/1000s.zip` (second thousand 1000-1999)
> </br>
> etc._
>
> _**NOTE**: assume that for each test the configured batch size is `10` in
> order to have a more manageable environment. An example resolution for a
> zip would be:
> </b>
> `/blocks/000/000/000/000/000/00/00s.zip` (first ten 0-9)
> `/blocks/000/000/000/000/000/00/10s.zip` (second ten 10-19)
> </b>
> etc._
>
> _**NOTE**: assume that for each test there are no blocks persisted initially._
>
> _**NOTE**: assume that the Block-Node under test is configured to have the
> compression algorithm set to `ZStandard` so the file extension for an archived
> block will be `.blk.zstd`._

|                            Test Case ID | Test Name                                                   | Implemented ( :white_check_mark: / :x: ) |
|----------------------------------------:|:------------------------------------------------------------|:----------------------------------------:|
|                                         | _**<br/>[Happy Path Tests](#happy-path-tests)<br/>&nbsp;**_ |                                          |
| [E2ETC_HP_FHP_0001](#E2ETC_HP_FHP_0001) | `Verify Archived Batch Zip Location`                        |                   :x:                    |
| [E2ETC_HP_FHP_0002](#E2ETC_HP_FHP_0002) | `Verify Archived Batch Zip Content`                         |                   :x:                    |
| [E2ETC_HP_FHP_0003](#E2ETC_HP_FHP_0003) | `Verify No Gaps in Zip`                                     |                   :x:                    |
| [E2ETC_HP_FHP_0004](#E2ETC_HP_FHP_0004) | `Verify Immutable Zips`                                     |                   :x:                    |
|                                         | _**<br/>[Error Tests](#error-tests)<br/>&nbsp;**_           |                                          |
|   [E2ETC_E_FHP_0001](#E2ETC_E_FHP_0001) | `Verify Cleanup on IO Failure`                              |                   :x:                    |

### Happy Path Tests

#### E2ETC_HP_FHP_0001

##### Test Name

`Verify Archived Batch Zip Location`

##### Scenario Description

Blocks are persisted in range `0-9` (the only ones currently in existence).
A Persisted Notification is published to the node's messaging system for blocks
persisted in range `0-9` with priority higher than the
`Files Historic Persistence`'s . The `Files Historic Persistence` will then
proceed to archive the batch of blocks in a zip file.

##### Requirements

The `Files Historic Persistence` MUST archive blocks in batches.</br>
Each batch MUST be archived in a single zip file.</br>
The created zip file MUST be located at the resolved path.

##### Expected Behaviour

- It is expected that the `Files Historic Persistence` will archive a batch
  successfully, creating a zip file at the resolved location.

##### Preconditions

- Blocks in range `0-9` are persisted (the only ones currently in existence).
  - The system-wide block provision facility is able to provide these blocks
    with priority higher than the `Files Historic Persistence`'s.
- A Persisted Notification is published to the node's messaging system for
  blocks persisted in range `0-9` with priority higher than the
  `Files Historic Persistence`'s.

##### Input

- Persisted Notification for blocks persisted in range `0-9` with priority
  higher than the `Files Historic Persistence`'s.

##### Output

- Regular file: `/blocks/000/000/000/000/000/00/00s.zip` exists.

##### Other

N/A

---

#### E2ETC_HP_FHP_0002

##### Test Name

`Verify Archived Batch Zip Content`

##### Scenario Description

Blocks are persisted in range `0-9` (the only ones currently in existence).
A Persisted Notification is published to the node's messaging system for blocks
persisted in range `0-9` with priority higher than the
`Files Historic Persistence`'s . The `Files Historic Persistence` will then
proceed to archive the batch of blocks in a zip file.

##### Requirements

The `Files Historic Persistence` MUST archive blocks in batches.</br>
Each batch MUST be archived in a single zip file.</br>
The zip file MUST contain all the blocks from the batch.</br>
Each entry in the zip file MUST have the same binary content as the original
block that was archived.

##### Expected Behaviour

- It is expected that the `Files Historic Persistence` will archive the batch
  successfully creating a zip file at the resolved location.
- It is expected that the zip file contains all the blocks from the batch.
- It is expected that each entry in the zip file has the same binary content
  as the original block that was archived.

##### Preconditions

- Blocks in range `0-9` are persisted (the only ones currently in existence).
  - The system-wide block provision facility is able to provide these blocks
    with priority higher than the `Files Historic Persistence`'s.
- A Persisted Notification is published to the node's messaging system for
  blocks persisted in range `0-9` with priority higher than the
  `Files Historic Persistence`'s.

##### Input

- Persisted Notification for blocks persisted in range `0-9` with priority
  higher than the `Files Historic Persistence`'s.

##### Output

- Regular file: `/blocks/000/000/000/000/000/00/00s.zip` contains 10 entries
  for each block `0000000000000000000.blk.zstd` to
  `0000000000000000009.blk.zstd`.
- The binary content of each entry is the same as the original block that was
  archived.

##### Other

N/A

---

#### E2ETC_HP_FHP_0003

##### Test Name

`Verify No Gaps in Zip`

##### Scenario Description

Blocks are persisted in range `1-9` (the only ones currently in existence).
A Persisted Notification is published to the node's messaging system for blocks
persisted in range `1-9` with priority higher than the
`Files Historic Persistence`'s . The `Files Historic Persistence` will then
proceed to not archive the batch of blocks in a zip file because there is a gap
present in the batch.

##### Requirements

The `Files Historic Persistence` MUST archive blocks in batches.</br>
Each batch MUST be archived in a single zip file.</br>
NO gaps are allowed in the batch.</br>
NO archive MUST be created when a gap is detected in the current batch.</br>

##### Expected Behaviour

- It is expected that the `Files Historic Persistence` will not archive the
  current batch if a gap in the batch is detected.
- It is expected that no files or data exist anywhere on the filesystem that
  would normally be produced in a successful archive.

##### Preconditions

- Blocks in range `0-9` are persisted (the only ones currently in existence).
  - The system-wide block provision facility is able to provide these blocks
    with priority higher than the `Files Historic Persistence`'s.
- A Persisted Notification is published to the node's messaging system for
  blocks persisted in range `0-9` with priority higher than the
  `Files Historic Persistence`'s.

##### Input

- Persisted Notification for blocks persisted in range `1-9` with priority
  higher than the `Files Historic Persistence`'s.

##### Output

- Regular file: `/blocks/000/000/000/000/000/00/00s.zip` does not exist.

##### Other

N/A

---

#### E2ETC_HP_FHP_0004

##### Test Name

`Verify Immutable Zips`

##### Scenario Description

Blocks are persisted in range `0-9` (the only ones currently in existence).
A Persisted Notification is published to the node's messaging system for blocks
persisted in range `0-9` with priority higher than the
`Files Historic Persistence`'s . The `Files Historic Persistence` will then
proceed to archive the batch of blocks in a zip file. The zip file is immutable
and cannot be modified after it has been created.

##### Requirements

The `Files Historic Persistence` MUST archive blocks in batches.</br>
Each batch MUST be archived in a single zip file.</br>
All successfully created zip files MUST be immutable, thet CANNOT be modified
after creation.

##### Expected Behaviour

- It is expected that the `Files Historic Persistence` will archive a batch
  successfully creating a zip file at the resolved location.
- It is expected that the zip file is immutable.
  - All subsequent attempts to modify the zip file MUST fail.

##### Preconditions

- Blocks in range `0-9` are persisted (the only ones currently in existence).
  - The system-wide block provision facility is able to provide these blocks
    with priority higher than the `Files Historic Persistence`'s.
- A Persisted Notification is published to the node's messaging system for
  blocks persisted in range `0-9` with priority higher than the
  `Files Historic Persistence`'s.
- A subsequent publish of the same notification is made after the first zip is
  successfully created.

##### Input

- Persisted Notification for blocks persisted in range `0-9` with priority
  higher than the `Files Historic Persistence`'s.
- A subsequent publish of the same notification is made after the first zip is
  successfully created.

##### Output

- Regular file: `/blocks/000/000/000/000/000/00/00s.zip` exists and is
  immutable.

##### Other

N/A

---

### Error Tests

#### E2ETC_E_FHP_0001

##### Test Name

`Verify Cleanup on IO Failure`

##### Scenario Description

Blocks are persisted in range `0-9` (the only ones currently in existence).
A Persisted Notification is published to the node's messaging system for blocks
persisted in range `0-9` with priority higher than the
`Files Historic Persistence`'s . The `Files Historic Persistence` will then
proceed to archive the batch of blocks in a zip file. However, an IO issue
occurs during the archive attempt. The `Files Historic Persistence` cleans up
any potential data and side effects produced during the archive attempt.

##### Requirements

The `Files Historic Persistence` MUST archive blocks in batches.</br>
Each batch MUST be archived in a single zip file.</br>
The `Files Historic Persistence` MUST clean up any potential data and side
effects produced during an attempt to archive a batch after an IO issue occurs
during the archive attempt.

##### Expected Behaviour

- It is expected that the `Files Historic Persistence` will clean up any
  potential data and side effects produced during an attempt to archive a batch
  after an IO issue has occurred during the archive attempt.

##### Preconditions

- Blocks in range `0-9` are persisted (the only ones currently in existence).
  - The system-wide block provision facility is able to provide these blocks
    with priority higher than the `Files Historic Persistence`'s.
- A Persisted Notification is published to the node's messaging system for
  blocks persisted in range `0-9` with priority higher than the
  `Files Historic Persistence`'s.
- A way to simulate an IO issue during the archive attempt.

##### Input

- Persisted Notification for blocks persisted in range `0-9` with priority
  higher than the `Files Historic Persistence`'s.

##### Output

- Regular file: `/blocks/000/000/000/000/000/00/00s.zip` does not exist.

##### Other

N/A

---
