docs/contributing.md, before:

# Contributing

We welcome contributions to the project.

Hiero strives for decentralization and that includes in its development process.
In addition to the [Hiero Contributing Guidelines](https://github.com/hiero-ledger/.github/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md) we have a few guidelines specific to the development of the block node project.

## Issues

Issues should be created using one of the issue templates. GitHub allows these templates to be bypassed in some areas of its user interface, but users should refrain from doing so and ensure all fields of the template are filled.
Any issues that have been addressed on `main` or a `release` branches are required to have a milestone associated with them.

## Labels

Labels are used to group related issues together and for various release process tasks. Only maintainers have permission to add or remove labels to issues. For other contributors, project maintainers will adjust the labels as necessary to meet the project's requirements. Every issue should have one of these mandatory Type labels:

- bug
- dependencies
- documentation
- enhancement

This label will be used for grouping items in the release notes. Additionally, issues are also recommended to have a green Area label to indicate which component is impacted and to route it to the appropriate team member. Any other label can be added on an as-needed basis.

## Branches
Branches should be created using the following naming convention: <issue#>-<description>. For example, if the issue number is 123 and the issue is to add a new feature, the branch name should be `123-add-new-feature`.

## Pull Requests

Pull requests should be created using one of the pull request templates. GitHub allows these templates to be bypassed in some areas of its user interface, but users should refrain from doing so and ensure all fields of the template are filled.
Particularly, the PR should have a reference to the issue it addresses, and the PR should have a clear description of the changes it proposes to assist reviewers.

The description should contain a short description of the change, followed by a bulleted list of changes in imperative 
present tense (i.e. use terms like `add`, `remove`, `change`, etc.) - inspired by [git kernel imperatove mood](https://web.git.kernel.org/pub/scm/git/git.git/tree/Documentation/SubmittingPatches?h=v2.36.1#n181). 
This description should be copied to the commit message once the PR is approved and squash-merged to the target branch.
Below is a good example of a PR description:

```
Increase the overall performance of local block verification by 1-2x due to the combined switch from E2 to N2 machine
class and the switch to virtual threads.

* Enable virtual threads
* Change from netty reactive API to project Nima
* Fix crashing under heavy load due to lack of non-heap memory
* Increase max replicas from 2 to 4
```

Every PR should have a corresponding issue associated with it. The pull request should indicate it fixes its
corresponding issue(s) by using the keyword `Fixes #1234` in the `Related issue(s)` section of the PR template. The
labels from the issue should be copied over from the issue so that it appears properly in the release notes. All pull
requests targeting `main` or `release` branches should have a milestone set. Project fields should be left empty since
only an issue should have a project assigned to ensure work is not tracked twice on the board.

Before opening a PR, the submitter should ensure all tests pass locally and any manual testing has been conducted to
verify the new functionality. The PR should stay as draft and without requesting reviewers until all requirements of the
ticket are complete, all checks pass, and a self-review of the changes has been conducted. Once that criteria has been
met, the PR can be marked as ready for review and the `@hiero-ledger/hiero-block-node-committers` team requested for a
review. PRs require at least two approvals to merge.

Commit message:

Address first round of feedback from jsync-swilds and ata-nas
Signed-off-by: Nana Essilfie-Conduah <nana@swirldslabs.com>

docs/contributing.md, after:

# Contributing

We welcome contributions to the project.

Hiero strives for decentralization and that includes in its development process.
In addition to the [Hiero Contributing Guidelines](https://github.com/hiero-ledger/.github/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md) we have a few guidelines specific to the development of the block node project.

## Issues

Issues should be created using one of the issue templates. GitHub allows these templates to be bypassed in some areas of its user interface, but users should refrain from doing so and ensure all fields of the template are filled.
Any issues that have been addressed on `main` or a `release` branches are required to have a milestone associated with them.
Additonally, `type` must be selected, and issues should have a parent issue if that is known.
Project maintainers will assign an appropriate parent if none is set initially.

## Labels

Labels are used to group related issues together. Only maintainers have permission to add or remove labels to issues.
For other contributors, project maintainers will adjust the labels as necessary to meet the project's requirements.
Every issue should have one of these mandatory Type labels:

- bug
- dependencies
- documentation
- enhancement

This label will be used for grouping items in the release notes. Additionally, issues are also recommended to have a green Area label to indicate which component is impacted and to route it to the appropriate team member. Any other label can be added on an as-needed basis.

## Branches
Branches should be created using the following naming convention: <issue#>-<description>.
For example, if the issue number is 123 and the issue is to add a new feature, the branch name should be `123-add-new-feature`.

## Pull Requests

Pull requests should be created using one of the pull request templates.
Particularly, the PR should have a reference to the issue it addresses, and the PR should have a clear description of the changes it proposes to assist reviewers.

The description should contain a short description of the change, followed by a bulleted list of changes in imperative 
present tense (i.e. use terms like `add`, `remove`, `change`, etc.) - inspired by [git kernel imperatove mood](https://web.git.kernel.org/pub/scm/git/git.git/tree/Documentation/SubmittingPatches?h=v2.36.1#n181). 
This description should be copied to the commit message once the PR is approved and squash-merged to the target branch.
Below is a good example of a PR description:

```
Increase the overall performance of local block verification by 1-2x due to the combined switch from E2 to N2 machine
class and the switch to virtual threads.

* Enable virtual threads
* Change from netty reactive API to project Nima
* Fix crashing under heavy load due to lack of non-heap memory
* Increase max replicas from 2 to 4
```

Every PR should have a corresponding issue associated with it. The pull request should indicate it fixes its
corresponding issue(s) by using the keyword `Fixes #1234` in the `Related issue(s)` section of the PR template. The
labels from the issue should be copied over from the issue so that it appears properly in the release notes. All pull
requests targeting `main` or `release` branches should have a milestone set. Project fields should be left empty since
only an issue should have a project assigned to ensure work is not tracked twice on the board.

Before pressing the "Create pull request" button, the PR submitter should ensure the following:
- `Assignees` is set to themselves
- At least one label on the PR is set
- The milestone on the PR is set
- The PR title follows [Conventional Commit](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/#summary) syntax.

Before opening a PR, the submitter should ensure all tests pass locally and any manual testing has been conducted to
verify the new functionality. The PR should stay as draft and without requesting reviewers until all requirements of the
ticket are complete, all checks pass, and a self-review of the changes has been conducted. Once that criteria has been
met, the PR can be marked as ready for review and the `@hiero-ledger/hiero-block-node-committers` team requested for a
review. PRs require at least two approvals to merge.
